- A lot of the ideas behind scrum were adopted from a Harvard Business Review article written in 1986. The paper described building a self-empowered team where everyone had a daily, global view of the product.

Cross functional Team:
The paper also introduced the idea of cross-functional teams. They described a cross-functional team as a group of organizational slices, different groups in the organization layered into one team. That means you could have teams that had customer representatives, testers, graphic designers, all working as one team.

Scrum Master:
 The role is really intended to be a combination of an Agile administrator, coach, and trainer. The Master in the title is intended to show that this person masters the scrum framework.
 In reality the scrum master's role is much more practical. They will spend most of their time removing obstacles for the team, and ensuring they have a great work environment. It's important to remember that the scrum master works for the team. 
 . If you're the scrum master for the team, they key thing to remember is restraint. Try to remember that any time you manage the team you're actually pulling them further away from true self-organization.
 
 Duties:
 Facilitate, not manage
 Dont communicate management authority
 Record estimates and progress with charts
 
 The role will also create charts showing Stories completed in a two week Sprint, or a chart to show whether the estimates were accurate. The reports are not about shame and blame. A Scrum Master would never put up a chart that says team member of the month. Thats outside the Scrum Master's role.
 
 
 PO:
  The product owner should have a direct line of communication with the customer. not all customer agree on the highest priority work. The product owner has the final say in what gets done first.
  
  Developers:
  The developers are anyone who's working on delivering the product. If you come from a software development background, then you might be tempted to think of developers as just software coders. Then you also have software testers, graphic designers, and database specialists. 
  . A key part of self-organization is that the developers estimate their own work, then they commit to delivery. The developer should have a good mix of skills. There's a shared responsibility for the team to produce;
  
  
 
  
