
Focuses on Product Development Flow
Kanban Board - A Signalling Device - High level view of Team's Progress - Watching a Sport Match with a Score Board

5 Key Elements/ Properties of Kanban:
-------------------------
Visualize the Work flow
Limit Work in Progress: Donot overload the System.
Measure and Manage Flow.
Make Process/Policies Explicit.Complex Adaptive Sysytems should keep rules Simple and make them Explicit.
Recognize improvement Opportunities.




Kanban is called a pull system:
----------------------------------

You shouldn't always assume that complex problems require complex solutions. Sometimes, simple solutions are powerful. They're easier for people to accept and they can be elegant and long-lasting.
The system uses Kanban cards as a way to signal when you needed to pull more products into the pipeline. That's why Kanban is called a pull system.
   
   
Kanban and JIT Manufacturing:
---------------------------------
JIT :  Just in Time 
no need of large warehouses
 The trick was to deliver them in small batches and do your best to manage this batch or queue size.
 
 Kanban adn capacities:
 ------------------------------
A kanban team has a set capacity. This is usually the number of hours each person works in a week.
 
 

Kanban and batches:
----------------------------
 If you're a fan of fast food, then you probably recognize this Kanban sandwich shop. This is exactly the type of system that most popular fast food restaurants use to create meals. The key thing to remember is that the kitchen will work hard to create the right sized batches. If there's too many sandwiches, then they'll get cold, and won't be purchased by customers. If there are too few sandwiches, then there'll be unhappy customers waiting for their meal. They want to deliver the exact number of sandwiches that will be consistently pulled through the system at a predictable pace. The same thing will be true with any Kanban system. You want to make sure that you have consistently sized batches, so that your customers don't have to wait. That's why you hear a lot about queue sizes. 
 
 
 
 
