
Welcoming Changing Requirements:
- What happens if you have a jar that's full of sand and you've been given some river rocks you need to add to the jar? Will they fit? What will you do? For many projects using traditional methodologies, there was always a full list of requirements to be delivered, a full jar. Additional requests were known as scope creep. How do we address Agile's second principle, welcome changing requirements?

 The answer is very simple. It's to prioritize your backlog. Agile relies on the principle of customer value prioritization. Sounds fancy, but really all it means is that what the customers value the most are the highest priority. So, as your requirements change, the product owner works with the stakeholders to organize the backlog continuously with the highest value items at the top of the list. In this way, as new requirements come in, less valuable items are pushed to the bottom of the backlog. Remember the jar I mentioned earlier? Well the analogy is that the highest value items go into the jar first, the river rocks, and the less valuable items, the sand, can fit in when and if they can.
 
 Agile Prioritization:
  Some of the most common techniques are Kano and MoSCoW. Let's take a look at these. 
  
  Kano is really a categorization tool that's used to help establish priorities.
   If your PO chooses to use this technique, she will assess all of your customer requirements or stories with the stakeholders in a meeting, and they'll categorize them into one of these four types. 
   First is exciters, also known as delighters, are features that deliver new, very valuable functionality.
   Satisfiers, or basic features, are ones that the customers expect. They don't get too excited about them. They just expect them to be there.
   Dissatisfiers are things that will cause your customer to dislike the product if they're not there.
   indifferent features are the ones that customers don't care about at all, and so will have little impact on their happiness with your product. These are features that would have a low priority.
   
  While Kano is an effective technique for prioritzing your stories, you may run into issues when you have a large group of stakeholders. Their individual preferences will make coming to agreement more challenging.
   
   
    Similar to Kano is a prioritization model known as MoSCoW. 
    That's an acronym for its categories: must have, should have, could have, and would like to have but not now.
    
     In traditional project management, they may have had months in between touch points and now it will be days or weeks.
      As you move through your project, be sure to acknowledge and thank your stakeholders for their ongoing input and involvement. Remember, in agile, we recognize that projects are done by people, for people. Successful, ongoing engagement and collaboration with your stakeholders will help you drive your project home.
     There's a direct correlation between involvement and engagement. 
     
     On Agile teams, we focus on making decisions quickly with no second guessing. With Agile projects, the goal is participatory decision making. That means everyone gets to chime in with their ideas, preferences, and votes. 
     
     This type of approach ensures greater levels of satisfaction with the outcome. Greater satisfaction yields more support.
      Convergence encourages discussion between people who don't agree. By discussing wide-ranging views, convergence occurs around a solution everyone can support.  What that means is that you don't want one or two strong individuals influencing all of your team's decisions. 
      
      
     . There are many techniques you can use to drive your stakeholders towards convergence. That's just a fancy word for collective agreement.
     
      First, there's the ever present one person, one vote technique.
      
      . An improved version of this is the thumbs up, down, sideways approach. You pose the decision to be made and participants simultaneously place their hands thumbs up for supporters, thumbs down for dissenters, and sideways for the undecided. Unless everyone votes thumbs up, the group will discuss the topic until convergence can be attained. 
      
       The number of fingers a person votes with indicates their level of support for the idea. The proposal is reviewed, discussion takes place, and the participants vote simultaneously. If a participant shows zero fingers, a fist, it means, "No way, I won't go along with this." One finger means I have serious reservations. Two fingers says I would like to discuss some minor issues. Three fingers indicate I'm not convinced, but I'm comfortable enough to move forward without more conversation. Four fingers mean I think it's a good idea and I support it. Finally, five fingers indicate I think it's a great idea and I'd be happy to take the lead when we move forward. 
       
With participatory decision making, everyone's voice and vote are heard. This ensures that you and your stakeholders have made your decisions collaboratively.

Agile Modeling:
------------------------
 In Agile, you use modeling to diagram use cases, model your data structures, or sketch out screen designs. These are very simple and lightweight. In many cases, they're drawn out on a whiteboard and a picture is taken to record the outcome.
 
  The value in this type of modeling happens early and quickly. The value isn't in the final model. The value comes from the discussion and direction it provides so you can start working. 
  
  . Another Agile tool you can use is the wireframe. This is a very popular way of mocking up your product by showing the flow between the screens. 
  
   This tool also enables ongoing discussion with the larger stakeholder group to ensure they're all in agreement about the final product as you flesh out more details. These are cheap and quick ways to get feedback.
   
   . Finally, a commonly used tool is the creation of personas. Personas are used to describe a particular type of user for your final product. The goal of the activity is to really know and understand who your customers are and how they'll interact with your system. Personas are an archetype of your users
   
    There are many techniques and tools you can use to keep your stakeholders in alignment throughout your project. They're all fast and light, and provide immediate value. Can you see yourself using one of these techniques each time your team starts work on new valuable deliverables? If you can, you'll be well on your way to maintaining stakeholder expectations throughout your project.
       
       
      
      
      
      
      
     
     
     
     
    
  
