Communication / Reporting Status
------------------------------------------
- Status reports aren't Agile, right? Right. I'm not here to tell you how to craft a beautiful status report or build the perfect template for one. It's all about other ways to provide status updates that will engage your stakeholders. We've already talked about the information radiators or big visible charts you'll build, but that's a very passive method for sharing information. By passive, I mean your stakeholders have to seek it out or discover it on their own. The preferred method of communication is always going to be face to face communication. Why is talking in person so important? 
 Ongoing status reporting in Agile is really focused on two-way communication and engagement. The more you communicate with your stakeholders, the more likely you are to deliver exactly what they expect.

 The preferred method of communication is always going to be face to face communication.
 
 Traditional project methods use the dispatching model where leaders tell people what to do and how. Feedback isn't desired or encouraged. Dispatching can lead to high levels of miscommunication or misunderstanding.
 
  So what should you be communicating?
  -----------------------------------------
   Honestly, everything you can think of. This is transparency. Remember that in order to maintain our stakeholders' trust in us, we need to keep information flowing to them freely.
   
    At a minimum, we should communicate our charter, vision, sprint commitments, release plan, burn charts, project risks and issues, and of course our quality or defect steps.
  
  Roadmap, Release Plan, Risks and Issues:
  You're also going to be providing forecasts for your stakeholders. Usually these take the form of your road map and release plan. (Remember, these are estimates, not commitments. So when you share them with your stakeholder group, help them keep this context in mind by also sharing your risks and issues).
  
  Collaboration Games:
  -----------------------
   Some of my favorite engagement techniques are collaboration games.These are engaging ways to bring stakeholders together to get their input on priorities, design, and direction. 
   
   Don't hesitate to host workshops for story writing or design sessions where you can model your product and decide the best way to proceed. 
   
   . Some of the most commonly used games are prune the product tree, where the stakeholders help gather and shape the final product. There's also the speedboat/sailboat exercise, where they identify threats and opportunities for the project, and buy a feature, which is a prioritization exercise. A quick internet search on collaboration games or any of these examples will yield millions of results. Seriously, millions. 
   
   
   
   
   
