. Agile teams use a small number of low-tech, high-impact charts to track how they're doing. - You're well on your way and your project is rolling right along. Now it's time to visualize your progress and measure your rate of delivery. 

Burn Charts:
 The first type of charts are known as burn charts. In this category, there are two basic types of charts, the burndown and the burnup.
 Burndown: Most of the time the team uses this to measure progress toward the sprint commitment and calls it their sprint burndown. 
 
  The conversations triggered by such a simple chart are wonderful. It forces discussion about new requirements versus desired delivery dates. These are not always comfortable conversations, granted, but necessary and better to have them early. 
  
  Velocity tracking Chart:
   velocity tracking chart which tells you how many points you're completing in each sprint.  Honestly, it takes three to four iterations for velocity to stabilize for newly-formed teams. This is because the team itself is still in the forming and norming stages of team development. One they've made it through those getting to know you and trust you stages, the norms have taken root.
   
   Stable Velocity:
   . Agile's goal is for teams to attain stable velocity. That means the team is delivering about the same number of points every iteration plus or minus 10%.
   
    Measuring your team's progress helps keep them on track and focused on the goal. It also helps you communicate expectations for ideal delivery timelines and the impact of increased scope. Overall, attaining a stabilized velocity will help you predict the outcome of your project.
    
    -----------------------
    
    Self-Organizing:
    
    - I once attended a wedding that had the most delicious cake I've ever eaten. It was three layers, each with its own flavor: almond cake under lemon cake under strawberry cake. Absolutely fantastic. It made me think of my Agile team at the time. No, seriously, it did. They were a wonderful team and had just attained the level of maturity known as self-organizing. I thought about what it took for them to arrive at that place, and I recognized that it's like a layer cake. There are essential elements to helping a team become self-organizing. 
    
    The first foundational layer to becoming self-organizing is trust. As a leader, your first and primary job as you launch your project with your team is to establish a safe environment based upon trust. Once you establish trust within the team, your job isn't done. Maintaining trust on the team is a full-time job. It requires you to continue facilitating open and honest communication. Doing this face to face is ideal, but video calling can meet the need when teams are distributed. Open and honest are big words to live up to. 
    Open means you must model the vulnerability needed to be transparent about the successes, failures, and unknowns of the project and your organizational situations. You need to encourage others on your team to behave in the same way.
    Honest means you must act with integrity. Be capable, ask for help when you need it, keep your commitments, and tell the truth if you find you can't. As a leader, you must encourage your team to behave this way as well. With trust as your foundation, you and your team are able to collaborate, which is the next layer. Collaboration simply means the team works jointly, not independently, to complete the work. Agile pulls individuals onto a team from different backgrounds. 
    
    The regular activities of Agile like sprint planning encourage open communication and highlight the need for all individuals to come together. In those meetings, everyone needs to share their knowledge, skills, abilities, and experience to organize and plan for the best possible product. This is collaboration. It means we're all in it together. We now realize that if we aren't all contributing, our product will suffer. It demands that people ask questions they may think are dumb without fear of ridicule. Once your team is collaborating well, you're in a position where self-organizing can begin, which is the third layer. Usually, a team has one or two emergent leaders. Those are individuals who are early experimenters. That means they're willing to identify and try new ways of doing things. These emergent leaders are helping to drive your team toward full self-organization. 
    
    Self-organization doesn't mean the team decides on their own organizational design or what project they'll do. It simply means that leaders step back and allow the team the freedom to define the right solution to their challenges themselves. As leader, you still maintain the Agile boundaries, but the team is free to experiment with and problem solve within those boundaries. Here's an example of this self-organizing behavior. Let's say a team member has moved her current task to done. Having reviewed the pending tasks before the stand-up, she's collaborated with other team members. She knows, based on those conversations, which is the right task to pull. In the stand-up meeting, she pulls it and talks about what she'll do today for that task. Self-organization isn't mysterious. It's the freedom within the team to decide on the next right step together.
    
 
 
