

A lot of project managers get particularly hung up on not following a plan. They assume that agile means no planning. The list of values is not saying that, it's saying that responding to change is more important than following a plan. The Agile Alliance thought project managers were spending too much time planning and not enough time responding to change.

- Becoming a professional agile team means re-engineering the way they think about work. Agility is a mindset that can be improved and not perfected. Your team will always be on their agile journey. There's no agile pizza party or agile complete memo. There's no finished agile box that you can check. This makes agile particularly difficult to start in your organization. There's a long ramp-up period. It requires people to think differently, and there's an unclear timeframe. In a sense, it's a never-ending process improvement. 

Agile Transaformation:
. It'll be much easier to start agile if everyone first agrees that there's a problem that needs to be solved. A lot of organizations get stuck because they have too much invested in the status quo and yet realize they need to change. You'll want to start by listing what's wrong with the status quo as a way to motivate your organization to move forward. Your list of challenges will probably look a lot like this. Our projects have bad requirements. Not enough work was done at the beginning of the project to make sure that all the unknowns had been accounted for. After the project starts, the manager fills in the missing pieces to make sure the project works. Our projects have unrealistic deadlines. Your stakeholder or sales team did not create a realistic timeline. Our projects have changing priorities. After you start the project, it starts to transform into something unrecognizable from the plan. The project morphs to accommodate the new priority and begins to spiral out of control. There's a lack of communication with the stakeholders. Some stakeholders like to just throw an idea over the wall and see what comes back. They're not available to the manager or the team, and there's a long lapse for feedback. There's no quality assurance with our projects. As soon as the project starts to look like it can be shipped, it's sent out. The project manager is working on several projects simultaneously. A multitasking project manager can be a challenge, not only for the project manager, but also for the team. Feel free to use this list as a starting point for your agile transformation. 

Once everybody agrees that there are problems that need to be fixed, then you can start on the path of your agile transformation. If you can't get consensus that these problems exist, then you should wait before starting.

Example Challenges:
Poor requirements
Unrealistic deadlines
Changing priorities
Poor Stake holder communication
Lack of Quality Assurance
Multi-tasking Project Managers

---------

Two group of Stake holders:

Executives
Development Managers

Executives will be more interested in predictability and delivery. This group is usually looking for ways to get teams to commit to delivery dates. 
That means for an executive, you'll want to describe Agile as a regimented and predictable delivery framework.

The Development managers will look for clear tasks and feedback in two-week chunks. Be sure to talk about Agile as a way to define their tasks and regulate their work.

It's important to not oversell an Agile Transformation. Like any organizational change, it will take time to get productivity gains. When you overpromote Agile as an overnight productivity boost, the executives will soon question the results.
Agile will eliminate a lot of your team's upfront planning. 

The best way to end your presentation is to recommend that the executive sponsor from the small team for the Agile pilot. Ideally, the project should have few interdependencies with other projects. It's also much better to go small than large. Try to keep the team to fewer than seven people. In general, try to always remember that Agile is an organizational change, so work hard to carefully set expectations and prepare the executives for a long transformation process. 




 
 
 


Continuous Improvement:
-------------------------------
PDCA cycle, a Plan-Do-Check-Act - this is an approach of continuous improvement. Every system must be in a state of continuous improvement in order to succeed.
